---
layout: post
title:  Vaca-cay
date:   2014-10-26
categories: fun
tags: sandiego
---

Yikes. Looks like my last post was on Oct 12. No bueno. BUT, there was some bueno! Since then, I've taken some time to visit family and friends in San Francisco and San Diego. Even though the stay was just a few days and honestly exhausting, it was really great to catch up with some people that I haven't seen in what feels like forever now. Every time I visit each of these cities, it makes me want to move back! I miss the area, the people, and just the feeling of NOT being in the middle of nowhere with no transportation to rely on. In due time.

In any case, I had to get *something* on this blog because not opening this editor has been driving me crazy. I went from a long streak of Github activity (though some were *"cheat"* days), to total abandonment. I know how shitty it feels to try to hop back into coding when stopping, even for a few days. Can't let that happen again! Though I won't get any done tonight, I'll be returning to my current side-project, Treat Yo'self, tomorrow. More details on that as it develops, but I'm very excited considering this is an idea I've had on the burner forrrever.

Other fun stuff that's been occupying my time (for those looking to derp a few hours):

* Gone Girl (go watch this movie NAO)

* Bayonetta 2 (just finished the original, awesome exclusive for Nintendo!)

* Legend of Korra (loving the 4th season so far, and ish's about to go down in Zaofu)

* BBQ Hawaiian Pizza (mmm)

But now, back to business. This week's productivity includes:

* Treat Yo'self

* Reading (some coding related and some not. probably catch up on Apprenticeship Patterns by Dave Hoover, and Terry Crews' autobio)

* Exercise (ate way too much on vacacay)

* Prep for international travels!

Back to the grind, happy (early) Monday!