---
layout:
title: balance
categories: []
tags: []
published: True

---

Today marks the half-way point of my time as a Hack Reactor student. If there’s anything that I’ve learned over the past 7 weeks (aside from a boatload of JavaScript), it’s that maintaining balance during even the most arduous endeavors is incredibly important. I’ve been fortunate to be a part of a program that takes this into great consideration before we step foot through the (digital) door. They’ve allotted time specifically for exercise every other day of the ‘work’ week, which has been critical for keeping me in a state where I can spend hours at the desk (alternating between sitting and standing mode), and still be active enough in any given week where this intense studying isn’t detrimental to my health.

This is the general idea that I really need to adhere to during second half of the program. We will be afforded a ton of autonomy in how we move forward in the program, and with that, it’s up to me to maintain this schedule of regular activity and balance. I’ve used the metaphor a million times, but this type of learning is like a marathon, not a sprint, and with that I need to make sure I’m keeping my body in as good of shape to remain at an optimal level for the following 6 weeks, and beyond.

Obviously, this takes the mind into consideration as well. In order for me to stay mentally engaged and continue giving 100% to the program, what I do when I’m away from the keyboard is just as important as what I’m doing while I’m cracking away at JavaScript. Having this healthy balance will allow me to return to the work feeling reinvigorated, and often times inspired. It’s times like those that I produce my best work, so for anyone with similar behavior, it’s important to stay cognisant of this so you don’t hit a point of diminished returns. I greatly look forward to each challenge every day, but I also keep an eye out for things outside of the screen for inspiration to come back and do my best work.

‘Balance’ is a word thrown around quite a bit in these types of learning environments, and rightfully so. It may mean something different to each person you ask. but regardless of how you achieve it, make sure you’re investing that time into yourself. You’ll be surprised at the returns when it’s time to get back to work.